hi good morning and welcome back it's
squared some time that I have uploaded a
video sorry for that else but busy with
some other work so today we'll be
learning about the secondary air
induction system in bikes
this is used in Indian bikes to comply
with the you know two standards that's
the pollution standard so the term
itself implies secondary air induction
system secondary so that means ii ii ii
three air induction system we have only
a primary air induction system the
primary air induction system is the air
is supplied into the carburetor needs to
be the fuel so that it has been pumped
into the combustion chamber of a petrol
engine to create the power so that's the
primary and reduction happening you
might be knowing about it so today we're
talking about the secondary air
induction system where it has been used
and why it is used actually so or here
this is the secondary air induction
system it consists of fairbell and two
diaphragms and both the sides and you
can see this is the inlet valve here
which is marked in blue and this is the
exhaust valve which is market blue oh
yeah here we have the spark plug this is
our cylinder this is our piston and this
is the connecting row with the crash of
this is a cylinder okay so here what
happens is something you all know how an
engine works so in a petrol engine we
have the primary air induction system so
the air is coming and it mixes with the
fuel with the petrol and it is being
pushed into the combustion chamber and
the spark happens and here we will get a
combustion okay
and after the combustion will create
axis so this exhaust valve opens and the
XO's will be going out through the
exhaust band and the expo spot so the
secondary air induction system comes
into play over there the function of the
secondary air induction
reduce the percentage of pollution
happening through the exhaust because I
knew or three standards by the
government it is to reduce the amount of
pollution or the exhaust gas which
conveys carbon dioxide and not getting
into the atmosphere the percentage of
that NOx or the amount of exhaust need
to be reduced I mean the pollutant need
to be reduced so what it is doing is
that when the exhaust is coming through
the secondary air and ashes in this
diaphragm actually works and from the
atmosphere it sucks the air and it's a
place to this exhaust well mixing with
the exes coming so if we say that we
have some amount of expose getting into
the system we mix it with the air from
the atmosphere and producing the
percentage of that real exhaust gas the
carbon dioxide and the NOx getting into
the atmosphere the percentage of that is
being reduced by this secondary air
induction system it works by the
pressure difference from the inlet valve
and the expose mode you can see the
secondary air and metro system one port
is actually connected towards the inlet
valve and the other is connected towards
the XO's well so as simultaneously this
best move a low pressure is be created
at this section a suction force is been
acting it at the secondary air induction
system due to the movement of this
valves as a result of this this guy from
tend to move and air is being sucked in
through the second bringing air
induction system and gets into the XO
spot so as our exhaust comes here it
gets mixed with the air coming the fresh
air coming from the atmosphere and push
acid out that means the percentage of
the real axis coming will get reduced as
the fresh air is getting mixed so the
amount of pollutant the percentage of
the amount of the pollutant gets reduced
according to the euro to stand
so that's what's happening in a pipe
with the help of a secondary air
induction system so I believe you bought
how the second day and an exorcism
basically works to reduce and comply
with the you know two standards and if
you like this video please click the
like button or do drop a comment you can
also subscribe to us by clicking the
subscribe button on YouTube so that when
we upload new videos it will directly
come to your inbox
have a great day thanks for watching
this video